# Models of Inequity
This repo provides an python simulation of the model introduced in [this paper by Cochran & O'Conor (2019)](https://cailinoconnor.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/Inequality_and_Inequity_in_the_Emergence_of_Conventions-FINAL.pdf). There is java code for the models in this paper [here](https://github.com/cailinmeister/inequityinequality). We want to build on this by introducing different Network topologies (in preparation). 

Evolutionary game theory has been used to explore how social inequity can emerge in societies that value equity i.e., the idea that symmetric social contributions should result in symmetric rewards. In the paper, a population of identical agents play a game where the agents contribute some effort to produce a social good that is shared between them. The model, inspired by those used to study cultural evolution, allows for the investigation of the conventions that emerge from the continuous interactions that are simulated, and in this case, it was easier to identify the inequitable ones even in the presence of stable, equitable outcomes that groups could potentially learn. There is a distinction here between inequity and inequality of resource allocation. The simulation produces stable outcomes where two groups receive unequal levels of resources but the situation may be deemed equitable when a group receives resources proportional to the effort. Outcomes where the two groups receive equal resources may be inequitable if one group does more work. In essence, the inequity emerges, in groups that are completely identical in terms of skills, preferences, endowments, etc. under reasonable assumptions and expectations of equity. The model is inspired that is inspired by evolutionary models of bargaining and the emergence of conventions using the Nash Demand game. 
